okay welcome everyone to this week's IPL
d/deaf meeting is February the 3rd 2020
and as every week we go through the
stuff that we've done last week and
things that we might do next week and
then discuss any open items we have or
we also take the time to welcome new
people to this call and they can briefly
talk about like who they are why they're
here if they want to I guess let's start
with this first because that's the the
exciting part and then we can go over
the updates
so yeah
anyone wants to start Congrats sure hi
everybody I'm back Hilton again this
time on IPL B and making selectors a lot
more usable some cool stuff um I don't
know I guess for those that don't know
me I have a lot of experience in note
Jay s and just networks and
content-addressable stuff in general one
of my fun projects was porting it to
JavaScript cool yeah then another new
face is Kevin yes hello everybody my
name is Kevin Raye I'm a member of the
project's org we've done protocol labs
and I'm just here to be a fly on the
wall and just kind of listen as I get up
to speed in the overall company and my
role is just kind of like unifying
projects plugging in where I can help
and I'm a project manager by trade so
any way that I can help out with the
team take how many action items and that
kind of domain is why I'm here but most
things can be muted smiling listening
thanks for great things and we have
another kind of new phase well he's been
here before I think but so you actually
do you want to give quick
quick intro for the other people I mean
Rocklea usually go by goes alone
internets I missed the beginning of
meeting so much sure what I'm doing here
I are interested in the rust IPL D as a
way to practice some rust so I'm here to
hear what's new and how to thanks thanks
yeah
so next we go over the stuff that we've
worked on again paste that I had paid to
the chat room and where we put the MIDI
notes and then I probably start with
myself so last week I've spent a lot of
time on rust and IP LD and I basically
make sure that the rust iPod ad stuff is
actually becoming a thing and the big
news is that the repository linked also
in the notes the rust I put the 1 there
was really an existing effort by some
community member and now my plan is to
rebase our also our apology of rust
I put the efforts on those things
because well it's already there and I
looked over it it looks pretty good
surely needs some changes but my not
doing them directly there and I also got
already at my Nexus on their repository
so if any wants to be edit a big deal
and the other thing is is it's more of
news is that the rust file coin
implementation is now open source and
was also press release about it so now
we can finally openly talk about it in
the public halls and why I mention it is
because icon is also heavily using IP LD
and there's definitely overlap between
the iPhone the efforts as well as 5 coin
and also we already see pour requests
from the implementers of the rust icon
stuff on the multi for my stuff and
basically I spend my time on getting all
those people are not one umbrella and
busy making sure we don't have doublet
efforts but really working together on
the whole thing that's pretty exciting
so
yeah that's pretty much what I did last
week next one on my list is Eric or do
you want to go have someone else go
first yeah that's okay I didn't prepare
my report super in advance this time but
so I continue to be on a performance
rabbit hole in all times in all places
spent a little time with Peter talking
about how to go fast this week which was
fun you had your thang to say you sent
me as well on the street David Cole
thank you yeah you're welcome if that's
not sarcastic I'm trying to get more
reusable notes out of that as well but
sort of just slowly broiling them down
so mostly I'm still working on writing a
bunch of code to bring the new node
assembler interfaces in go light towards
the core and this takes a decent amount
of work because it is a very central
interface at this point I am pretty much
fully committed to all of these things
because benchmark said it was good I'm
working on reimplemented the package
called IP LD free which is basically
what users the library used when they
don't have any other node implementation
in mind all right so like all of our
stuff has selectors and well right now
basically everything until code run
comes around uses this so I'm rewriting
all of those to see all of the
performance gains anticipated with these
new interfaces and really kind of going
a bit wild with the benchmarks on this
and making sure like every allocation
perfectly advertised and so this
involves a surprisingly large number of
generated types this week I had a little
bit of a sidequest making sure I'm not
like omitting old would be large binary
assembly results it's fine but it is
something to keep an eye on so I'm going
to try to finish up the new IP lovely
packages or the new I feel lead-free
implementation packages in like this
next week and then try to start merging
things into the core which would be fun
at that point I'm probably gonna have to
oak and then as anyone else in the
ecosystem who's depending on
interfaces because there's a couple
other libraries that'll start some if
you propagate changes and that'll be fun
that's at least another week I think so
that's it for me thanks next one on my
list is a road okay that mines been
pretty simple and not super high
bandwidth so just some spec work I'm
just in the process of merging the car
spec which represents the current state
of the car format so that we can then
start working on a version two which I
think Michaels gonna be raising a bit
off in his and the taxi bore one is
still I think the dike seaboard
spec changes are ready to merge they
just it just raises a lot more questions
than it solves because it introduces
suggested constraints that none of the
current implementations have so we'll
need to think about what to do about
that but I think I think we should merge
it because it is it is the status what
is it it's not suggested it's
prescriptive not descriptive so that
should be okay and while I'm working on
the other thing I'm working on is
Seaboard new see more stuff in
JavaScript and I'm trying to take this
into account as well as performance
improvements and that's an interesting
journey so how do how do we push down
this strictness all the way into the the
parser and encoder and and how do we
maintain performance while doing that
it's yeah raises lots of interesting
stuff but I think the dag several
changes that the pull request is
probably ready to merge as well and then
we can go about revisiting the
implementations and say well what are we
doing about this you know should we
start rejecting these things and can we
even start rejecting them with the
current coding we have anyway that's um
that's me
nothing major of them
all right yes I see that Mike wants to
go last
does anyone else have any updates
someone wants to share
no like then make some is Michael yeah
sorry okay so couple quick things um
wish that we did resurface some more
constraints on car files in particular
file coin apparently like the file claim
kind of ecosystem layer has started to
make assumption about there only being a
single group from the side of the car
files so for this big data project we
working on we have to kind of back up
now rewrite a bunch of stuff throw away
a lot of work and in particular we it's
not as simple as just saying okay we'll
take all the old words that we're adding
and like stick them in one see we're
walk together because some of the way
the allocated was written it was only
based on size of the data going into the
car file and not based on the number of
file entries in the car file so there
are some that would end up being like
three megabytes of Seaboard a block so
we don't we can't do that so anyway
that's all getting rewritten this week a
few things that I wanted to bring up one
is we started to service more
requirements for a future version of the
car spec so in particular we want to be
able to have all of the information that
you would need to deterministically
reconstruct a car file accessible in its
header so that's all of the routes the
ideas and the selectors that were to
create those if you don't have all that
information then we would just consider
that car phones on deterministic but if
you do have it then it should be
deterministic this brings up like an
interesting kind of maybe cool thing
that we could think about doing which is
if we could have a way for a selector to
be written that runs through a graph and
then says ok this point in the graph is
actually a
lecture itself go run that then we could
make essentially the head the new header
for car files a selector like it's like
a multi selector basically for all the
data inside of it
and so you would be able to just take
the cid of the route and that would be
all you need to pass into a selector
engine in order to reconstruct the
entire thing and it brings up some
really interesting possibilities where
you can literally take any point in a
graph and and pair it with a selector
and say oh no don't go and now create a
car file out of this and if you hit a
point in a graph where you have a
selector and a cid and you have a bunch
of known car files you would actually
know if you had already generated that
or not based on the hash so there's some
really kind of cool stuff that we can do
if we add that little bit of syntax I
can't tell if like I thought of this or
if Eric thought of this when he first
designed them and that's why they're
designed that way probably Eric tends to
be ahead of me so then being in nicely
more blocks is probably like intended
that you can and and Eric always has
like this Turtles inside Turtles all the
way down mentality about all this stuff
so probably thought about this already
but yeah we should spec out what that
looks like so that the next version of
the car header format is not out of line
at all with sliders and this is in fact
a balance lifter great okay
the there's a there's still a PR open
for modest changes to the data model
spec about determinism I'd like to give
this merged I think the only remaining
projections with Eric so if you could
look at that like now it's changed since
the last time that you looked at it so
just poke it at one last time and if you
like it than one get that merged this
week I've got to finalize everybody
reviews and yeah I got to rewrite that
allocator and I'm hoping to find a
little bit of time to start poking at
this this idea that I have called a web
repo which is basically just add an
interface for and I peeled the storage
layer that is designed not to look like
a database but to look more like a get
repository
so you store blocks in it you tag films
you can compare those tags you can sync
those tags you can do things with them
so that's the way that I've been
thinking about that and want to poke it
we want to start poking at that as soon
as I can but we'll see I've got a lot of
what I put into play right now also we
should do a team week this year we've
been sort of tentatively targeting q2 I
don't know we haven't talked we talked a
lot about one into another team week we
haven't talked about what we want to
cover in the team week though we're in a
groove we're actually pretty good at
working remotely so we don't have like
like last time we had like a bunch of
things that we really wanted to give in
like a lined about and now I feel like
we don't have such an obvious list so
maybe we should start thinking about
maybe in the meetings once a week and
just kind of batting around ideas or
things that we would want to cover in a
team week and sync up about and really
get on the same page
well we're all together in the same room
so that's that's it for me all right
thank you yeah
anything else anyone wants to talk about
I got an awesome t-shirt that was them I
I'm going to show it because it's just a
good was a different shirt cool yeah all
right then I guess that's all for now
and we were pretty quick that's good and
we see us again next week or everyone
who yeah still wants to hang out for the
after-party if there's anything we need
to discuss and discuss Oh
publicly but I don't think there's
anything to this week but yeah all right
goodbye everyone
I